.\" @(#)yapp.1 1.1 96/09/19 Armidale Software
.ds ~ \u\(ap\d
.TH YAPP 1 "19 September 1996"
.SH NAME
.B webuser  
- allows administrative functions to be performed for web accounts.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webuser
.RB [ " \-dehlprsuv " ]
.RB [ "login" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B webuser 
without options creates a local web account for 
.IR login ,
if one doesn't already exist,
and sets the web password to be the same as the Unix password for 
.IR login .  
If no 
.I login
is specified, then an account is created associated with the current
Unix user.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options tell
.B webuser  
the administrative function 
you wish to perform:

.B \-d
Disables the ability to login into the account for
.I login 
or the current Unix user

.B \-e
Enable ablity to login into the account for 
.I login
if specified, or the current Unix user, if the account has previously been 
disabled


.B \-h
Displays the usage information for 
.BR webuser .


.B \-l
List the assocated login for all web accounts

.B \-p
Change the password for
.I login 
if one is specified, otherwise it will change the password for the 
web account associated with the current Unix user.  

.B \-r
Remove the web account for 
.I login
or the current Unix user.
Only root or the User Administrator if specified in the
.B yapp.conf 
file may do this.

.B \-s
Show the account information for
.I login 
or for the web account assocated with the current Unix user.  This
will print the Web login, Status (Disabled or Active), Full name,
Email address and the time the user last read information.

.B \-u
Create or update the a web account assocated with the current Unix
user, or 
.I login 
if specified.
The user's web password will now be the same as their 
Unix password.

.B \-v
Show the version of
.RB webuser .

If 
.B webuser 
is being run by a user, either no 
.I login 
should be specified or the user must specify their own login.

If
.B webuser
is being executed by 
root, nobody, or the User Administrator if specified in the
.B yapp.conf 
file, any 
.I login 
may be specified on the command line. 

.SH USAGE
.LP
The Yapp
.B newuser 
command runs 
.B webuser 
if the login of the web account
.B newuser 
has been asked to create already exists as a Unix login. 
See the Yapp Manual for more information on 
.BR newuser . 

You may wish to create a wrapper script
for the Unix command 
.BR passwd , 
and have it run 
.B webuser
whenever a user changes their Unix password.  

You can also incorporate 
.B webuser 
in the process of creating a Unix account if you wish all Unix accounts 
to automatically have web accounts as well.

.B webuser
is also used for the administrative functions of removing web accounts  and
resetting a web password.


.SH ERROR MESSAGES
.PD 0
.TP 5
webuser: Permission denied
You are running 
.B webuser 
with the 
.I login 
option, but you do not have
permission to access the password of the  explicitly listed 
.IR login .  
Try running 
.B webuser 
without 
.I login 
specified, or run 
.B webuser 
as root.

.TP
This program must be installed setuid root
.B webuser 
has not been installed as setuid root.  Make sure that
the owner of 
.B webuser 
is root, and it is mode 4711. 

.TP
webuser: no such login
.B webuser 
was given a login which does not exist in the Unix password file.

.TP
webuser: cannot create a web account with root access
.B webuser 
was given a root login, and will not create a web account for such
logins.


.TP
.RI "webuser:" login " is already enabled" 
The account for
.I login
was already enabled for use.  You can check the status of the account
using the
.B \-s option.

.TP
.RI "webuser:" login " is already disabled" 
The account for
.I login
was already disabled.  You can check the status of the account
using the
.B \-s option.


.TP
getting host name
.B webuser
was unable to get the fully qualified domain name for the current host.

.TP
rename
.B webuser
was unable to rename the temporary password file to the actual password
file.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yapp (1),
.BR passwd (1)
.LP
.IR "YAPP Manual" .
.LP

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to yapp@armidale.ann-arbor.mi.us

.SH NOTES
.B webuser
must run setuid root so that it can access the encrypted form of the
user's password when shadow password files are used.

Source code available upon request.
