.\" @(#)yapp.1 1.1 95/09/21 Armidale Software
.ds ~ \u\(ap\d
.TH YAPP 1 "21 September 1995"
.SH NAME
bbs, yapp \- text conferencing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bbs
[
.B "\-qulosn " 
]
.RB [ "\-x " 
.I program-file 
] [ [
.B "\-j " 
]
.I conference 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I Yapp 
is a customizable conferencing system for Unix, with both text-based,
and WWW-based access capabilities.  It is backward compatible with 
PicoSpan, an older, widely-used commercial conferencing system, and 
contains many additional features.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
If no 
.I conference
is specified, 
.I yapp
looks for the file
.B \&.cflist
in the user's
.B \&.cfdir
directory if it exists, then in the user's home directory.
If the file is found, the first conference listed is used as the
startup conference.
Otherwise, the default conference specified in the yapp
.B rc
file is used as the startup conference.
.TP 14
.B \-q
Quiet mode.  Don't display any prompts or superfluous text.  Useful
when writing 
.I Yapp 
scripts.
.TP 
.B \-u
Turn off output buffering.
If output is unbuffered,
.I yapp
ignores the setting of the 
.I pager
variable.
.TP
.B \-l
Start in ``no conference'' mode.
When starting in limbo,
.I yapp
ignores the user's
.I \&.cflist
file and the default conference setting in the system
.I conflist
file.
.TP
.B \-o
Force observer status in all conferences.
For the duration of the current
.I yapp
session, the user will not be allowed to enter responses in conferences.
.TP
.B \-s
Strip non\-printing characters from input.
.TP 
.B \-n
Don't source conference 
.B rc
files.
.TP
.BI "\-x\fR \fP" program-file\fR
Read commands from the file 
.I program-file
instead of from standard input.
.TP
.BI "\-j\fR \fP" conference\fR
Start in the conference named
.I conference
instead of the system default or the first conference specified in
the user's
.B \&.cflist
file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI $\s-1HOME\s0/ .cfdir
personal directory for storing yapp files.
If this exists, this is
.BI \s-1WORK\s0\fR,
otherwise, 
.B WORK 
is
.BI \s-1HOME\s0\fR.
.TP 
.BI $\s-1WORK\s0/ .cflist
list of conferences you're interested in
.TP
.BI $\s-1WORK\s0/ .cfonce
file of commands executed at startup time
.TP 
.BI $\s-1WORK\s0/ .cfrc
file of commands executed when entering a conference
.TP
.BI $\s-1WORK\s0/ .*.cf
conference participation files
.TP 
.B /usr/bbs
base directory for 
.I yapp
files
.TP
.B /usr/bbs/rc
global start-up file
.TP
.B /usr/bbs/conflist
mapping between conference names and locations
.PD
.br
.ne 6
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cfcreate (1),
.BR cfdelete (1) 
.LP
.IR "YAPP Manual" .
.LP
.I yapp 
is found in 
.BR /usr/local/bin/yapp , 
as a link to 
.BR /usr/local/bin/bbs .
